README for Sequencer64 0.94.6 (Native JACK, CLI, multiple sets, varisets, tempo)
Chris Ahlstrom
2015-09-10 to 2018-02-18

Sequencer64 is a reboot of seq24, extending seq24 in features and bug fixes;
the heart of seq24 remains intact.  It is an old friend, and maintains some
backward-compatibility with the --legacy option.  A "book" about seq64 can be
found at https://github.com/ahlstromcj/sequencer64-doc.git.  Prebuilt Debian
packages are at https://github.com/ahlstromcj/sequencer64-packages.git.  A
number of versions are supported; here are the two main ones:

Native JACK support: Seq64rtmidi/seq64

    Sequencer64 now has native JACK MIDI support, with virtual/manual ports
    and auto-connect like ALSA, based on RtMidi massively refactored. It falls
    back to ALSA support if JACK is not running.  See README.jack for basic
    instructions on native JACK.

GUI-less native JACK support: Seq64rtmidi/seq64cli

    The JACK version without a GUI.  Currently controlled via MIDI control
    events (start/stop events must be set up), it relies on a good working
    configuration generated via the GUI or edited by hand.  Currently the only
    way to load a MIDI file is as the last argument on the command line.  We
    hope to add an OSC harness and command application eventually.  Supports a
    "daemonize" option and dumping status to a log-file in the
    user-configuration directory.

See the INSTALL file for build-from-source instructions.

Recent changes:

    -   Version 0.94.5:
        -   Added the ability to scale the main window from 1.0 to 3.0 times
            its normal size.  Has issues, but makes buttons bigger and the
            layout easier to see from a distance.
        -   Fixed issues with parsing the -o/--options and adding a file to
            open as the last command-line argument.
        -   Fixed issues #92 and #94, and other issues with multi-wid set
            selection.
        -   Adding events in the seqedit event pane did not work. Fixed.
        -   Importing a file wiped out existing set notes.  Fixed.
    -   Version 0.94.4:
        -   Fixed some mismanagement of the changing image for the transpose
            and play buttons that caused segfaults on some systems.
        -   Fixed build errors with --enable-mainscroll (an unfinished feature).
        -   The LFO window button now toggles that window.
        -   Added a pattern editor event button showing only existing events.
        -   Fleshed out the implementation of MIDI control for sequence record,
            quantize record, and thru.
        -   The configure script is now removed (for reconstruction) after a
            --full-clean bootstrap.
        -   Fixed issues with changing the screenset via keystroke,
            spinbutton, and MIDI control event.
    -   Version 0.94.3:
        -   Changed SeqSpec proprietary track number from 0x7777 to 0x3FFF.
            This will change existing files silently to store the new track
            number.
        -   Added a File / Export option to write a version of a file without
            Sequencer64-specific SeqSpecs.
        -   Unhandled meta events are now preserved instead of being sent to
            the bit bucket.  They are saved along with the rest of the data.
        -   The sequence number is now shown in the pattern and event editors.
        -   Minor fixes and improvements to fruity interaction mode, plus
            fixing GitHub issues #90 and #105.  Also show fruity mode
            indicator in the pattern editor.
    -   Version 0.94.2:
        -   Fixed issue #124, Stop button not resetting the progress bar.
        -   Improved the panic function, and fixed an issue with it when JACK
            native mode is in force.
        -   The "user" definitions for port names are now applied to the
            virtual (manual) output ports by the "-m -R" options.  Note that
            input ports no longer show the "user" definitions.
        -   Installation now adds files to /usr/local/share/sequencer64-0.94.
    -   Version 0.94.1:
        -   Fixed a side-effect of code that kept resetting the tick position
            to 0, preventing progress if JACK transport was active.
        -   Fixed the MIDI clock issue #123.
    -   Version 0.94.0:
        -   Additions from the Oli Kester project, "Kepler34".
            -   Panic-button to stop everything!
            -   Recent-files menu entries; logs full path-names, but shows
                only the base name.  Has Gtk issue with using underscore as
                an accelerator.
            -   Support for multiple trigger selection in the Song Editor, but
                incomplete and currently disabled.
            -   Initial support for Song Recording, in Live mode, which writes
                the live muting changes as triggers to the Song Editor.
                Also has a song-recording snap mode.
            -   A one-shot queuing mode is now provided.  It works like
                queueing, but unqueues the pattern after one playback.
        -   Issue #122 bad alsamidi build fixed.
        -   Bug fixes to unreported issues:
            -   Seq64, when not JACK Transport Master, would not play and
                caused other JACK clients to not play either.
            -   Somehow the "night mode" was painting notes black in the
                perfroll.
            -   Adding a set-note caused a prompt for saving even with no
                changes.
            -   Major major fixes for the "user" configuration file, and 
                a new "[comments]" section for it.  Also fixed ancient bug
                in populating the seqedit event menu, and no longer apply
                the "user" devices to the input port.
        -   The ability to toggle the time display between "B:B:T" and
            "H:M:S" has been added.
    -   Version 0.93.5:
        -   Fixes an issue where incoming Active Sensing events are treated
            incorrectly.  Also update handling for similar events.
        -   Added configure and helper files to the official checkout so that
            users do not have to install so much dev software.
        -   Changed "-v" to be a new "--verbose" option for trouble-shooting.
        -   Fixed the setting of the "stazed" filter-by-channel functionality,
            which was disabled.
        -   Added (WE HOPE) the missing start/stop/continue functionality in
            the "rtmidi" ALSA and JACK implementations.
        -   Some improvements to set_status() functions.
        -   Minor cleanup, and investigation into an issue with triggers and
            the pause functionality in Song mode.
    -   For more version information, see the NEWS file.

This package is oriented to developers and users who do not mind building from
source, with a little help.  It is fairly well organized and well documented.
Please see the INSTALL file for a brief description of installation.

Initial work/thought/documentation started in July of 2015, when I was laid
up after some old-man surgery.

See the ROADMAP file for more information and a kind of TODO list.  Also see
contrib/notes/bugs_to_investigate.  Sequencer64 is documented by the following
project, a 190+-page PDF file and its LaTeX source code:

   https://github.com/ahlstromcj/sequencer64-doc.git

# vim: sw=4 ts=4 wm=4 et ft=sh
